Update Dynamic Instrumentation docs for public beta (#18683)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/dynamic_instrumentation/_index.md

To create a span probe:

1. Select **Span** as the probe type.
1. Complete the generic probe setup (choose service, environment, version, and probe location). 

### Span tag probes

A *span tag* probe adds a tag value to an existing span. You have two options either adding a tag to the currently active span or adding a tag to the service entry span.
Note: internal spans are not indexed by default and thus might not be searchable in the APM trace UI.  

You can use a *span tag probe* as a more efficient alternative to [using Custom Instrumentation to addings tags in code][14].

To create a span tag probe:

1. Select **Span Tag** as the probe type.
1. Complete the generic probe setup (choose service, environment, version, and probe location). 
1. Specify a name for the tag.
1. Specify the value of the tag using the [Dynamic Instrumentation expression language][15]. 
1. Optionally define a condition using the Dynamic Instrumentation expression language. The tag will only be added when the expression evaluates to true.

> 1. Optionally add additional tags, each with their own name, expression, and optional condition.

Reviewer: Do we want to say something if the conditions are overlapping: will both tags applied for example or do we stop after the first condition is met?

Author: The conditions are per-tag, and I think @shatzi made changes to the UX to make this very clear, so I don't think it necessarily needs explaining - any feedback on this @shatzi ?

Reviewer 2: let look at usage and recording to see if this is a problem. until now I don't see it was an issue and Datadog support engineers help the user to setup on traiil.

- Optionally, [Source Code Integration][7] is set up for your service.

**Note**: The "Dynamic Instrumentation Read Configuration" (`debugger_read`) permission is required to access the Dynamic Instrumentation page, and the "Dynamic Instrumentation Write Configuration" (`debugger_write`) permission is required to create or modify instrumentations. For more information about roles and on how to assign roles to users, see [Role Based Access Control][8].

### Create a logs index

Dynamic Instrumentation allows you to create "Dynamic Logs" that are sent to Datadog and appear alongside your regular application logs.

If you use [Exclusion filters][9], ensure Dynamic Instrumentation logs are not filtered:

1. Create a logs index and [configure it][10] to the desired retention with **no sampling**.
2. Set the filter to match on `source:dd_debugger` (all Dynamic Instrumentation logs have this source).
3. Ensure that the new index takes precedence over any other with filters that match that tag, because the first match wins.

## Enable Dynamic Instrumentation

To enable Dynamic Instrumentation on a service, go to the [in-app setup page][16]. 

> For more details instructions, select the relevant runtime below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more detailed instructions, select the relevant runtime below:
```

{{< partial name="dynamic_instrumentation/dynamic-instrumentation-languages.html" >}}

## Explore Dynamic Instrumentation

Dynamic Instrumentation can help you understand what your application is doing at runtime. By adding a Dynamic Instrumentation probe you are exporting additional data from your application, without the need to do any code change or redeployment.

# Using Probes

A probe allows you to collect data from specific points in your code without halting the execution of the program. 

> If you're a SRE, you can think of probes as a way of enhancing your observability by adding dynamic logs, metrics, and spans to running application without needing to stop or restart anything. This meant you can gather data immediately without disturbing the user experience or requiring lengthy deployments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you're a SRE, you can think of probes as a way of enhancing your observability by adding dynamic logs, metrics, and spans to running application without needing to stop or restart anything. This means you can gather data immediately without disturbing the user experience or requiring lengthy deployments.
```

> If you're a SRE, you can think of probes as a way of enhancing your observability by adding dynamic logs, metrics, and spans to running application without needing to stop or restart anything. This meant you can gather data immediately without disturbing the user experience or requiring lengthy deployments.

Author: Fellow non-native English speaker, so I solved the problem by working around it in ad899feacc7cef6e2051a3430fc4d5da7daf872b :)

> If you're a developer, you can think of a probe as a "non-breaking breakpoint". In traditional debugging, a breakpoint is a point in the program where the execution stops, allowing the developer to inspect the state of the program at that point. However, in real-world production environments, it's not practical or even possible to stop the execution of the program. Probes fill in this gap by allowing you to inspect variable state in production environments in a completely non-intrusive way.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, I'm not sure we should call out the roles here directly. 🤔 I think this is how we think about the personae internally, but do we want to bleed that into the docs? If you're a DevOps, what is DI to you?

Author: That's fair, I removed SRE but kept developer in ad899feacc7cef6e2051a3430fc4d5da7daf872b to make this more fluid, does it make sense now?

## Creating a probe

All probe types require the same initial setup:

1. Go to the [Dynamic Instrumentation page][12].
1. Click **Create Probe** in the top right, or click the three dot context menu on a service and select **Add a probe for this service**.
1. If not prefilled, choose service, runtime, environment and version.
1. In the source code, specify where to set the probe by selecting either a class and method or a source file and line. 
   If you set up Source Code Integration for your service, autocomplete shows suggestions for the selecting a file and displays the file's code so you can choose the line.

## Probe Types

### Log Probes

A *log probe* emits a log when it executes. 

Log probes are enabled by default on all service instances that match the specified environment and version. They are rate limited to execute at most 5000 times per second, on each instance of your service.

If you enable `Capture method parameters and local variables` on the log probe, the following debugging data will be captured and added it to the log event:
  - **Method arguments**, **local variables**, and **fields**, with the following limits by default:

>     - Follow references three levels deep (configurable in the UI).

Reviewer 3: configurable up to five levels?

Author: I think this UX is still up for debate, so prefer leaving that unspecified for now

    - The first 100 items inside collections.
    - The first 255 characters for string values.
    - 20 fields inside objects. Static fields are not collected.
  - Call **stack trace**.
  - Caught and uncaught **exceptions**.

> Because capturing this data is performance-intensive, by default it is enabled on only one instance of your service that matches the specified environment and version. Probes with this setting enabled are rate limited to one hit per second.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because capturing the execution context is performance-intensive, by default it is enabled on only one instance of your service that matches the specified environment and version. Probes with this setting enabled are rate limited to one hit per second.
```

### Creating a probe

All probe types require the same initial setup:

1. Go to the [Dynamic Instrumentation page][12].
1. Click **Create Probe** in the top right, or click the three-dot menu on a service and select **Add a probe for this service**.
1. If they are not prefilled, choose service, runtime, environment, and version.
1. In the source code, specify where to set the probe by selecting either a class and method or a source file and line. If you set up Source Code Integration for your service, autocomplete shows suggestions for the selecting a file, and displays the file's code so you can choose the line.

See the individual probe types below for specific creation steps for each probe type.

Alternatively, you can create a probe from these other contexts:

Profiling
: On a profiler flame graph, you can create a probe for a method by selecting **Instrument this frame with a probe** from the frame's context menu.

Error Tracking

> : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: When you hover inside the stack trace over a stack frame you can click on **Instrument** this pre-fill the probe creation form with the Issue context.
```

- [Datadog Agent][1] 7.41.1 or higher is installed alongside your service.
- [Remote Configuration][2] is enabled in that Agent.

> - For Java applications, tracing library [`dd-trace-java`][3] 1.15.0 or higher.

Reviewer 3: Let's also update minimum `Datadog Agent` version to `7.44.0` as discussed in slack.

Author: Done in 6a6e9133b97fffccfd5a4cebcb61b152394dd5e3

: On a profiler flame graph, you can create a probe for a method by selecting **Instrument this frame with a probe** from the frame's context menu.

Error Tracking

> : When you hover inside the stack trace over a stack frame you can click on **Instrument** this pre-fill the probe creation form with the Issue context.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
: On a stack trace, mouse over a stack frame and click **Instrument**. This prefills the probe creation form with the Issue context.
```

To create a metric probe:

1. Select **Metric** as the probe type.
1. Complete the generic probe setup (choose service, environment, version, and probe location).
1. Specify a name for the metric, which will be prefixed with `dynamic.instrumentation.metric.probe.`.
1. Select a metric type (count, gauge, or histogram).
1. Choose the value of the metric using the [Dynamic Instrumenation expression language][15]. For count metrics this is optional, and if you omit it, every invocation increments the count by one.

{{< img src="dynamic_instrumentation/metric_probe.png" alt="Creating a Dynamic Instrumentation metric probe" >}}

### Creating a span probe

> A *span probe* emits a span when a method is executed. You can use a *span probe* as a more efficient alternative to [creating new spans with Custom Instrumentation]][13], as it does not require making code changes and redeploying your software. If the method throws an exception, the details of the exception will be associated with the newly created span's `error` tag.

Reviewer 3: This doesn't render correctly: 
<img width="836" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-26 at 09 28 32" src="https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/assets/1101441/1de97c59-cace-4fdb-ae85-a2b5325ecf52">

Author: Fixed in f76d3d1908e29d59a9366e309684d8b810db3e6c

To create a span probe:

1. Select **Span** as the probe type.
1. Complete the generic probe setup (choose service, environment, version, and probe location). 

> 

Reviewer 2: should we create a screen shoot here?

Reviewer 3: +1 on the screenshots. Either add them for the new paragraphs or remove them from log and metric probe and maybe just have one exemplary screenshot.

### Creating a span tag probe

A *span tag* probe decorates an existing span with a tag value.  You can use a *span tag probe* as a more efficient alternative to [using Custom Instrumentation to addings tags in code][14], as it does not require making code changes and redeploying your software.

> To create a span probe:

Reviewer 2: To create a span tag probe

Author: Fixed in 0e2f1be7a5d7234bc8981a32d5bd14c76c9b18f4

1. Select **Span Tag** as the probe type.
1. Complete the generic probe setup (choose service, environment, version, and probe location). 
1. Specify a name for the tag.
1. Specify the value of the tag using the [Dynamic Instrumentation expression language][15]. 
1. Optionally define a condition using the Dynamic Instrumentation expression language. The tag will only be added when the expression evaluates to true.
1. Optionally add additional tags, each with their own name, expression, and optional condition.

>  

Reviewer 2: screen shot?

Author: added in 0bd29f99cd0db39f0738ffa5261d48e4e883e2b3
